Almost all programming languages supports Multi-dimensional arrays or C++ also supports Multidimensional Array.
We have already seen single dimensional Array, you can create 2D array, 3D array  depending on your requirement.
Commonly we study about single dimension and two dimensional array.
So let us see how 2D array is created and accessed.
See the method for creating a two dimensional array is int A of, first dimension is 3 and the second
dimension is four.
If I created like this we imagine that the array like this is created with the three rows and four
columns where the name of an array is A.
And this is row 0 1 2.
And this is 0 1 2 3.
And when you want to access anything like here I want to write 15 then I should say A of.
First row 1 and second column.
So two assign 15.
This is how we can access any location.
now one fact about two dimensional array IS IF I SAY THE STARTING address of these two bytes is three
hundred and three not one.
Then this is 2 and 3 4 and 5 6 and 7 and then definitely this will be 8 and 9 see though we are drawing it in
2D  form, rectangular form but this location is next to this location so it means the
location is allocated continuously side by side.
So basically it will create a sigle dimension array of size 12, where the first four locations are used
as first rows, second four locations are used as second row and these locations are used as third row
and the name of this is A but the compiler will allow us to access this single dimension.
as actually it is 2D array.
Let me repeat the points we can create a two dimensional array like this.
by mentioning no. of rows and number of columns and the indices are like this.
They start from zero only but in reality there will be a single dimension that is created which is used
as a  2D array by the compiler.
We don't have to worry about this just we are finding the fact that arrays are created like this now.
Next let us see how to create an initialize a 2D array.
Suppose i want to declare an array of size 2 rows, 3 columns.
So this is the declaration.
And along with this I can mentioned the values also.
So 2 5 9.
This is first row, with 3 values that are 2 rows and 3 columns so each row can have 3 values
so it will be like this 2 rows and 3 columns.
First row value is 2 5 9.
Then the second row values are 6 9 15 so 6 9 15.
This is how the will be filled and we can access any element with the help of two indices.
That is a row number and column No. now other way of initializing it as I can mention A[2][3]
and I can simply write all these values, 2 5 9 6 9 15 so this also can fill this array like same way.
Even I can say A[2][3],
I'm thinking same size and same name so if I fill up only 2 values then you know well that the
rest of the values have be initialized automatically by zero.
So this is how we can declare & initialized two dimentional array.
Next let us see how to access the elements of 2-D array. for accessing all the elements
Basically we require nested for loop one for loop for row and other for loop  for columns, let me write down
the code and show you.
I just want to display all these elements by driving all elements one by one.
That is row wise.
So for that I would take for integer I assign zero I is less than two.
This is for rows, I is for rows and I plus plus, then inside this I will take for int j assign 0
and j is less than 3, so j is  for columns and J plus plus.
So you know well  how these two nested for loops will take the values, they  take the values 0 0 0 1 0 2 and so
on that is 1 0 1 1 1 2.
So cout A[i][j].
So in this way all the elements will be accessed.
And here I am displaying all of them.
Now one more thing is I can after every row I want to make a new line so say cout
endl after this.
Now let me take it as a complete program and show you.
i will declare a two dimensional array and display all the elements from that two dimensional.
So here is a program I will declare int array only, see mostly I'M taking integer type array only.
Now I will display this using 2 for loops for integer.
I assign zero I is less than two I plus plus and for integer J assign zero J iS less than three and J++.
now Cout  I will display all the elements one by one A[i][j] then cout  endl, we want a
new line after every row that's it, this is a piece of code for accessing all the elements of two dimensional array
and displaying them next.
Mostly it 2d arrays are used for performing matrix operations on matrixes like adding
subtracting or multiplying two matrixes.
So let us look at one simple program for adding two matrixes so first I will explain how matrixes are
added.
If I have some two matrixes 2 5 9 7 3 6 this is matrix A and  matrix of B is 6 3 4 9 5 2.
These are the two matrixes. the I dimension of both these matrixes are 2x3 and 2x3.
Then we can add them if their dimensions are same.
And the result and matrix also be 2x3
how these elements are added is corresponding elements are added.
That is two and six means A[i][j] is added with.
b[i][j], if I say this is 0 1 and this is 0 1 2 and 0 1 0 1 2 so 0 0 0 is added 0 commas
zero.
and 0 1 1 1 5 is added with  0 1 3 and 9 with 4 so on, now in this way the corresponding elements are added.
We can write down the logic here for adding two matrixes how this addition can be done is.
just you have to browse through all the elements of C matrix while being here that is 0 ,0.
Get elements of A[0] and b[0] and add them and stored the result.
So we have to prepare c matrix so the program will be very simple.
I will write the code here for adding two matrices and displaying the result. first matrix i will take
A[2][3].
The second matrix B I will take the same elements 2 and 3 then I need one more matrix that is C for that.
Also I will create an array. now what I have to do is I have to go to all these empty locations in C and for each location
I should get the elements added Form A and B so I can browse through all these locations by using two for
loops for integer i  assign zero i is less than two.
I plus plus. then inside this for J assigned 0.
J is less than 3 J plus plus then I have to prepare matrix c and for
Each element of C matrix.
I should get the element of A matrix and addit with elements of
b matrix
That's it.
So these two nested for loop will  add all the elements of a and b and store the result in C if
I want to display c matrix then again I should use 2 for loops Integer i assign zero I use less than
two I less plus and for integer j assign Zero j is less than three j plus plus and cout C[i][j].
that's it.
So this will display the result in matrix addition I have shown you just by changing the sign.
We can make the program for subtraction and multiplication will be an exercise for you.
You can try that multiplication.